---
permalink: /about/
title: "About"
excerpt: "Geek, Explaineer"
toc: true
last_modified_at: 2018-05-25T08:41:35-04:00
---

## About this Site

This site focuses primarily on my endeavors in astrophotography-- gear, process,
software, and, of course, targets & images.  I reserve the right :wink: to delve
into other topics that are loosely related to astrophotography-- If I have to
pack it into the van for a night observing then it is fair game.  Posts will be
tagged appropriately so readers don't have to suffer through topics they aren't
interested in.

This site is very much a work in progress.  Really only the overall look is how
I want it.  There is not yet a commenting system (which makes sense, since there
is not really anything to comment _on_).  Odds are that, once I get my permanent
observatory set up, I will also start recording some video content.  We will see
how that goes - I have been told that "I have a face for radio".  That's good,
right?

### Getting Around

This site has a pretty simple layout - it's all static thanks to
[jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com), and should be fairly responsive. At the top you
see a main navigation bar.  The top left corner has the site title which will
always get you back to the root level.  Navigation is broken up into "posts" and
"notes".

Posts are like journal entries, happening at a point in time.  They will contain
_tags_, which tell you the main topic.  I don't have the list of tags yet, but
you can be sure that `astrophotography` and `image` will be in the mix.  You can
find posts by either [date](/year-archive/) or by [tag](/tags/).

Notes, on the other hand, are more "timeless".  These might be tutorials or
little one-offs.  Full disclosure here - I won't know what goes where until I
actually put up some content, but I _promise_ that I will update this doc when I
do.  Unless I forget.

### Minutia

For hosting I leverage [GitHub Pages and Jekyll](https://help.github.com/articles/about-github-pages-and-jekyll/), 
and use a somewhat tweaked version of the 
[minimal-mistakes](https://github.com/mmistakes/minimal-mistakes) theme, with a dark color palette.

If you'd like to see _what_ I've tweaked, you can always 
[fork the repo](https://github.com/jamiesmith/minimal-mistakes).

Some handy documents for the theme:

- [Quick-Start Guide](https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/docs/quick-start-guide/)
- [Sample Pages](https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/year-archive/)


## About Jamie

I guess that no personal blog site would be complete without a completely
self-serving section on the author.  I know that you have been waiting, so
__here it is__!

Hi, my name is Jamie Smith.  I have a long history in software consulting.
Somewhere along the line the powers-that-be realized that I was good in front of
a whiteboard, and I was moved into a presales role, where I really started to
shine.  I honed my communication and other talents.  One of my greatest skills
is what I call *the art of efficiency*.  This isn't some self-help book with 47
steps to greatness-- more along the lines of
*enhanced laziness*. With this process I get things done as efficiently as
humanly possible.  Do something once?  OK, fine.  Twice?  Take notes and make it
repeatable.  Three or more times?  Write a script.

This ethos really seeps its way into all aspects of work - I plan to capture
some of the notes into docs for this site, hoping that someone will get some use
out of them.  Worst case, I reclaim a few KB on my Dropbox account.


{% 
  include figure image_path="/assets/images/homepage/parrot.jpg" 
  caption="My new friend and I at a dog event, about a dozen years ago.  I researched tropical birds for a couple weeks after.  My wife said no"
%}
I have a pretty broad experience base, ranging from credit card processing on
distributed transactional platforms to container management, Docker, and IoT. In
my previous roles I *lived* working with customers, pre and post sales. Whether
it was giving demos, standing at the whiteboard, or brainstorming around a
conference table or computer screen.  Case in point: I spent three months in
Singapore, working on a proof-of-concept project for a large consumer bank.
During that period we allocated at least two hours each day to spend with the
customer - designing their architecture, deciding and defending ideas.  Coming
to consensus with their team.  I was helping the customer learn the product,
while mentoring our new team learn at the same time. *This* is what I do.  My
time in Singapore was both glorious and dreadful. Meet me for a beer and I will
tell you the stories (but not Hoegaarden.  That was about the only decent beer
available in Singapore.  Three months.  Do the math. I will likely never drink
another Hoegaarden).

Now enablement is my primary focus.  My current gig was a big departure from
what I had been doing at previous companies, while keeping the best parts.  This
role has allowed me to develop and hone the abilities that were always an
undercurrent in my previous roles - conveying information and ideas.  Part of a
team, yet completely autonomous.  Demos, videos, slides, voiceovers (I have been 
told that I really have a face for radio, which I think is a compliment?).

Next to my laziness, another selling point is that I ~~am incredibly picky and
notice every mistake I see (except my own)~~ pay attention to the details of
things.  A good friend summed it up with "you see the world differently than
everyone else".

I am good with that.
